{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-BoldOblique;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red32\green31\blue30;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c12549\c12157\c11765;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Reviewer #3 (Remarks to the Author):
\f1\b0 \ulnone \uc0\u8232 \u8232 Dear Authors,\u8232 \u8232 Your manuscript focuses on the \'91Cushing hypothesis\'92 in the context of climate change. Unfortunately, I think there is one basic misconception and simplification related to this hypothesis. First, Cushing was not referring to individual fitness as a consequence of resource match/mismatch but to annual stock recruitment in fish, a measure of population mean fitness (please see also specific and detailed comment below). Consequently, the manuscript somehow does not address what it claims to address but simply focuses on individual fitness consequences of match/mismatch. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0

\f2\i\b \cf2 * Our response:
\f3\b0  We thank the reviewer for raising this concern. We have clarified on lines X that Cushing was referring to annual stock recruitment in fish, a population measure of fitness. However, many other studies have applied the hypothesis to both individual and population measures of fitness. Consequently, we include both measures in our study. We now add this clarification on lines X.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0

\f1\i0 \cf2 Second, you simplify the \'91Cushing hypothesis\'92 to an extent that makes testing it problematical: If do you not find a study you reviewed in agreement with the hypothesis, it could be (1) because the hypothesis genuinely does not apply here or (2) because other mechanisms that were omitted when simplifying the hypothesis are important. For example, if you found a seasonal decline in fitness, rather than the expected hump-shaped curve peaking at maximum resource abundance, it could be because a seasonal fitness decline caused by priority effects in a migratory species \'91overrules\'92 the fitness consequence of relative timing to the resource.\'a0\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0

\f2\i\b \cf2 * Our response:
\f3\b0  We follow the simplest causal explanation for an observation (i.e. a hypothesis) put forward by Cushing. We also follow the two assumptions associated with the hypothesis and urge readers to more rigorously test these assumptions. For the hypothesis to generate the predicted outcome, these assumptions must be true. These often go unstated by authors but are crucial.
\f1\i0\fs22 \uc0\u8232 }