{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red34\green34\blue34;\red0\green102\blue153;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\csgenericrgb\c0\c40000\c60000;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww20160\viewh7980\viewkind0
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs28 \cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}The idea behind this paper originated from a discussion I had with Judy Myers (Professor Emeritus, University of British Columbia) more than 8 years ago. We were discussing a chapter from my PhD thesis about phenological mismatch (i.e., the ecological consequences of a shift in the timing of species interaction) due to climate change and she pointed out that these types of phenological mismatches were not going to be as prevalent as the initial case studies were making them out to be. \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}A few months later, Lizzie and I were chatting after a departmental discussion group and she asked me whether there was any evidence in the literature to suggest phenological mismatches were going to be common. \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Soon after that discussion, Lizzie invited me to join her NCEAS working group and pitch my ideas to the group. We soon realized that in order to have climate change-driven phenological mismatches, phenological (i.e. timing of recurring life history events) shifts of different magnitudes between interacting species were needed. We scoured the literature and could not find a general consensus about whether interacting species were shifting their phenologies in response to climate change in synchrony.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}After further discussions, we decided to divide the ideas into two papers, the first of which became Kharouba et al. 2018 where we demonstrated that yes, the relative timing of interacting species have shifted significantly over the past 35 years. This is across aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}When we sat down to write the second paper in 2017, our initial plan was to do the same thing\'97a meta-analysis of all the work done so far on phenological mismatches\'97 and see how often studies were demonstrating empirical consequences of shifts in phenological synchrony. After pulling together all the relevant studies we could find, we tried our best to analyze the data in a single framework and ran into problem after problem. \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}We then ran into a tough time putting together a talk for ESA in 2017. After the conference, we realized that the reason we were having such a hard time synthesizing the data was that the literature was a mess. So we decided to write a perspectives piece that would try to summarize the shortcomings we ran into along the way. \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}So what did we show? On the one hand there\'92s a hypothesis with testable predictions about the magnitude of consequences in response to climate-change driven shifts in synchrony but on the other, studies are not collecting the data required to test the assumptions and multiple mechanisms of the hypothesis nor are they defining a pre-climate change baseline in phenological synchrony. Both of these gaps make it difficult to predict whether climate change will lead to phenological mismatch for interacting species.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs22 \cf0 TIPS\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sb100\sa100\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs26 \cf2 I often get asked what makes a good\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://natureecoevocommunity.nature.com/channels/521-behin"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 Behind the Paper}}\'a0post, so here are my three top tips. Feel free to add your own experiences and examples in the comments section!\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri720\sb100\sa100\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 1.	Make it personal \'96 tell the story behind the study, what worked well and what didn\'92t. Include anecdotes about people you met at conferences, or\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://natureecoevocommunity.nature.com/users/24561-richard-buggs/posts/14207-ash-tree-genomics-in-response-to-ash-dieback"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 in the bar}}, who you collaborated with and who helped the project.\'a0\
2.	Use images \'96 I can\'92t say this enough. Images really help elevate the attractiveness of the posts.\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://natureecoevocommunity.nature.com/users/21252-ros-gloag/posts/12818-honey-bee-invaders-show-us-balancing-selection-in-action"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 Field work}}\'a0clearly lends itself to images, but they could also be of the\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://natureecoevocommunity.nature.com/channels/521-behind-the-paper/posts/14216-can-we-predict-how-ecological-diversity-responds-to-disturbance"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 experiments}}\'a0or the\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://natu"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 experimenters}}. We can also host\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://natureecoevocommunity.nature.com/users/24858-lennart-bach/posts/141"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 animations}},\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://natureecoevocommunity.nature.com/users/17997-patrick-goymer/videos/14288-nee-biodiversity-final-wm-subtitles"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 video abstracts}}\'a0or other related content either within the post or in a separate video post.\
3.	Speculate \'96 The conclusion of your research article must be supported by the data. Use the freedom of your community post to\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://natureecoevocommunity.nature.com/channels/521-behind-the-paper/p"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 speculate}}\'a0on what the results\'a0
\f3\i might
\f2\i0 \'a0mean or what\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://natureecoevocommunity.nature.com/users/22506-bart-kempenaers/posts/14056-pectoral"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 opportunities}}\'a0this opens up for the future.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
}