{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11440\viewh14000\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf0 Updated terms (Aug 2019):\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Cushing match-mismatch hypothesis
\f0\b0 - this hypothesis postulates that the consumer temporally \'91matches\'92 the peak of its most energetically demanding period with the peak of resource availability. Assuming there is selective pressure and that better-matched individuals will have higher fitness than individuals who are not as well matched, if there is any change to the relative timing of the interaction, the hypothesis predicts that there will be a decrease in fitness for the consumer (i.e., mistiming). At the curve\'92s limits, consumer fitness should fall to zero when the change in relative timing is sufficiently large. (Figure 1)\

\f1\b \
Phenological match or synchrony- 
\f0\b0 is based on the phenological differences between pair-wise interacting species and is a measure of the overlap between two events, each of which has a temporal distribution. A match implies that the
\f1\b  
\f0\b0 peak of the most energetically demanding period of the consumer with the peak of resource availability completely overlaps or is highly synchronous. Importantly, this term does not incorporate fitness consequences for either species. 
\f1\b \
\
Phenological mismatch or asynchrony
\f0\b0 - occurs when the peak of the most energetically demanding period of the consumer and the peak of resource availability do not match. This mismatch occurs between interacting species; it does not occur with the abiotic environment or due to intraspecific processes.\
\

\f1\b Phenological mistiming
\f0\b0 - decreases in consumer fitness associated with changes in the relative timing of key life history activities among interacting species, (i.e. phenological mismatch).\

\f1\b \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Adaptive mismatch
\f0\b0  
\f1\b hypothesis- 
\f0\b0 a hypothesis put forward by Visser et al. (2012) that postulates that, in some systems, life-history trade-offs will promote asynchrony for many or most individuals in a population
\f1\b \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Synchrony hypothesis- 
\f0\b0 a hypothesis that before climate change, the most energetically demanding period of the consumer was at the same time of peak resource availability, and thus consumer fitness was at its maximum (i.e. a match).\
\

\f1\b Asynchrony baseline
\f0\b0  - a hypothesis put forward by Singer and Parmesan (2010) that before climate change, the most energetically demanding period of the consumer was not timed to the peak resource availability, and thus consumer fitness was not at its maximum. This could occur for various reasons (e.g., co-evolutionary arms race, other transient dynamics).
\f1\b \
\
}